# Project Turtlebot3_house_navigation

## Project Description

This Project is based on PlanSys2_patrol_navigation_example: plansys2_patrol_navigation_example
- We copied this example as starting point as it a similar idea.
- Change name to turtlebot3_house_navigation 
    - Reused move_action_node.cpp - updated waypoints input to use a config.yaml file.
    - Reused patrol_action_node.cpp - updated to use occupancy, lights and energy levels behaviours.
    - Reused patrolling_controller_node.ccp - changed FSM, decrease update messages. Removed static planning problem. Replaced with dynamic planning problem generated by a new node (problem_generator_node.cpp).
    - Added new problem generator_node.cpp to update the problem given to PlanSys2 problem_expert.
    - Modify/Update patrol_example_launch file and add a new launch file to start Gazebo with a random room x_pose & y_pose. Put the room name in a tmp file for other nodes to access it.
    - Reuse and update patrol.pddl file to include occupacy, lights and energy levels.
    - Add a map directory to store house_explored.yaml and house_explored.pgm files. 
    - Reuse param directory and added a config.yaml file to store room coordinates and debug_mode variable.
    - Update nav2_param.yaml local file inside params directory to change cost_scaling_factor to 30 and inflation_factor to 0.23. Those two changes enabled the robot to pass through the main door narrow corridor. 
    - Created a setup_tb3.sh file to set the environment with all required environment variables and three aliases to run simulation faster.

## How to run the Simulation

In terminal 1:
```
cd cascante_25255844_EE650_ws
source setup_tb3.sh
startgazebo
```
In terminal 2:
```
cd cascante_25255844_EE650_ws
source setup_tb3.sh
startrviz
```
Use 2D Point to set the rviz robot postion to match gazebo random room start

In terminal 3:
```
cd cascante_25255844_EE650_ws
source setup_tb3.sh
startpatrol
```

By submitting this assignment, I declare that this is all my own work and does not include the work of any other person (from my class, from the internet, or elsewhere) or GenAI output (except where specifically noted below). I have worked alone in this project.

I used PlanSys2 plansys2_patrol_navigation_example code example and modified to fit the project requirements. I used GenIA to help me modify the code and check C++ sintaxis. Most of the querries are related to how I implement a piece of code like a randomizer in C++. Used it help me find bugs in the code or get ideas on how to implement a process/procedure in PlanSys2. I used GenIA to help me debug the environment initially, to find libraries missing or understand why gazebo or rviz where failing to load in WSL.

All code and the evolution of code is documented in github: https://github.com/ozcascante/cascante_25255844_EE650_ws
```
git clone git@github.com:ozcascante/cascante_25255844_EE650_ws.git
```

A short video presentation of the full simulation can be found here : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ixot5mydRNg

